What she wore doesn’t matter. What she drank or smoked or snorted doesn’t matter.  Rape is rape, and it needs to be taken seriously even when the circumstances surrounding it are murky.  It’s a distinction we’re still having a hard time with, apparently.  The latest example: an alleged rape last month at an annual Halloween bacchanal in Georgetown.  Some people were still lingering at the $5 million home known as Dodge Mansion when at least one of them heard loud cries of distress coming from the second floor. It was 4 a.m.  One guest followed the sounds into a second-floor bedroom and found a woman on the floor, naked, crying and saying she’d been raped.  “I was screaming,” the 21-year-old alleged victim said in an interview with The Washington Post. She acknowledged that she’d snorted cocaine before her attacker violently bit, grabbed and penetrated her. (The Post typically does not identify victims of alleged sexual violence.)  Afterward, two women — including one wearing little else besides body paint — tried to help her. At that point, witnesses said the alleged attacker burst into the room, threw one of the women against a wall and bashed the head of the other against the floor.  Police were called, and about a dozen officers filled Dodge Mansion, sequestering witnesses and taking their statements. The home is owned by Bill Dean, the rich, politically connected chief executive of M.C. Dean, one of the country’s largest electrical contractors. Police said he is cooperating with the investigation.  Everyone there knew who the alleged attacker was, but he’d already fled. No charges of rape or assault have been filed against the man. Police said Monday that the incident remains under investigation.  The alleged victim told The Post that she didn’t want to go to the hospital for a full examination. Instead, she went home and took a shower. But it’s also unclear how hard the police tried to persuade her to go the hospital.  The former Playboy model who was bashed against the floor went to the hospital about four days later and was diagnosed with a mild concussion.  And that’s it. A month has gone by, and there’s no sexual assault charge, no assault charge. Nothing.  So how seriously do police take sexual assault?  Three years ago, Human Rights Watch issued a report criticizing the D.C. police department for its handling of a number of rape cases, alleging that some officers didn’t take claims seriously and dismissed victims who had been drinking or who couldn’t recall precise details.  But the report itself wound up being criticized for its methodology, and former D.C. Police Chief Cathy L. Lanier strongly disputed its findings. “MPD and the District’s entire criminal justice and victims’ services system,” Lanier said, “have been working together to improve the response to our investigation of sexual assaults.”  Nevertheless, let’s compare how the police responded to the Dodge Mansion incident with the response to an attack this weekend.  A young woman was at the Grand Hyatt in downtown Washington when a stranger allegedly tried to rape her. He was armed with a knife, dropped his pants and tried to press against her, according to police.  But she fought him, and he grabbed her hair so hard, it separated from her scalp. She ran away and called police. The attacker got away, too.  In this case, police did exactly what they should have done. The woman went to the hospital. Police put out a release with a picture of the man taken from a security camera, a full alert to find the assailant.  This is how our society prefers its rape victims: women attacked by strangers in public places. The truth is that only about 10 to 20 percent of rapists are strangers to their victims, according to federal statistics and crime victim surveys.  But at a Halloween party at a rich guy’s house, where there were racy costumes, alcohol and drugs? Where the woman knew the identity of her alleged attacker and the question of consent might be harder to pin down?  Nothing.  We’ve seen this same scenario play out on countless college campuses, where young women go to parties, wind up drunk and get raped by someone they know. Those allegations of sexual assault rarely lead to a conviction or any disciplinary action at all.  The only difference here is age and income.  The woman who said she was raped at the mansion party — a 21-year-old junior at a Maryland university who told our reporter that she was still in pain two weeks later — should have been gently persuaded by police to go to the hospital.  Instead, she has essentially stopped talking to the police or even her parents about the attack.  This is the let-it-go culture of the college rape problem, transferred to a non-campus setting.  One Georgetown real estate agent offered her take on what had happened at the Halloween bash, noting that “some neighbors can’t believe how these girls dress at these parties. Where there is alcohol and seductive dressing, it’s a real formula for disaster.”  What she wore doesn’t matter. What she drank or smoked or snorted doesn’t matter.  How much money an attacker makes and what it says on his business card doesn’t matter, either. Rape is rape.
